# Overview

Host monitoring allows you to monitor your hosts by installing the Cloud Monitor agent on the hosts to collect operating system metrics.

## Versions

The Cloud Monitor agent has the following three versions that are sorted by release time: Java agent, GoLang agent, and C++ agent. The C++ agent occupies less CPU and memory resources than the Java agent and GoLang agent do. When Cloud Monitor needs to monitor a large number of hosts, the C++ agent saves resources on the hosts, compared with the other two agents. Therefore, we recommend that you install the C++ agent. The following table describes the three versions of the Cloud Monitor agent.

|Language|Version number|Description|Reference|
|--------|--------------|-----------|---------|
|C++|3.X|The C++ agent is the latest version. We recommend that you install the C++ agent.|[Install and uninstall the Cloud Monitor agent]()|
|Go|2.X|The GoLang agent is no longer maintained. We recommend that you install the C++ agent.|-   [CloudMonitor GoLang agent overview]()
-   [Install the CloudMonitor GoLang agent]() |
|Java|1.X|The Java agent is no longer maintained. We recommend that you install the C++ agent.|-   [CloudMonitor Java agent overview]()
-   [Install the CloudMonitor Java agent]() |

## System requirements

|Operating system|Architecture|
|----------------|------------|
|Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, or later|i386 or AMD64|
|Linux 2.6.23 or later with the GNU C Library|i386 or AMD64|

## Installation path

-   Linux: /usr/local/cloudmonitor
-   Windows: C:\\Program Files\\Alibaba\\cloudmonitor

## Processes

After the Cloud Monitor agent is installed, one of the following processes is run on your hosts based on your operating system:

-   Linux: /usr/local/cloudmonitor/bin/argusagent
-   Windows: C:\\Program Files\\Alibaba\\cloudmonitor\\bin\\argusagent

## Ports

The Cloud Monitor agent accesses TCP port 80, 443, 3128, or 8080 of a remote host to send heartbeat messages and report monitoring data.

## Resource usage

|Resource|Usage|
|--------|-----|
|CPU|0.2% to 1.0% of a CPU core|
|Memory|10 MB to 20 MB|
|Network bandwidth|About 10 Kbit/s of internal bandwidth occupied when monitoring data is reported at intervals of 15sAbout 2 Kbit/s of internal bandwidth occupied when heartbeat messages are sent at intervals of 3 minutes |
|Disk space occupied by the installation package|10 MB to 15 MB|
|Disk space occupied by logs|10 MB occupied by a log file and up to 70 MB occupied by all log files|

## Logs

The Cloud Monitor agent stores logs in one of the following directories based on your operating system:

-   Windows: C:\\Program Files\\Alibaba\\cloudmonitor\\local\_data\\logs
-   Linux: /usr/local/cloudmonitor/local\_data/logs

The logs directory stores the following two types of logs:

-   argusagentd.log: stores the logs generated by the C++ agent to daemonize processes. The logs contain information such as the startup and shutdown of monitoring processes.
-   argusagent.log: stores the operational logs of the C++ agent.

## Installation guide

For more information, see [Install and uninstall the Cloud Monitor agent]().

## Common operations

For more information, see [Common operations]().

