# How do I troubleshoot an abnormal stop of the Cloud Monitor agent?

This topic describes how to troubleshoot an abnormal stop of the Cloud Monitor agent.

The Cloud Monitor agent sends a heartbeat message to the Cloud Monitor server every 3 minutes by default. If the Cloud Monitor agent does not send heartbeat messages for 15 minutes, the host where the agent resides determines that the agent stops.

The Cloud Monitor agent may automatically stop due to the following causes:

-   The Cloud Monitor agent cannot communicate with the Cloud Monitor server.
-   The process of the Cloud Monitor agent exits.

## Solution to the failure to communicate with the Cloud Monitor server

If the Cloud Monitor agent runs normally before it stops, you can reinstall the agent to start it again.

-   Automatically install the Cloud Monitor agent

    For more information, see [Automatically install the Cloud Monitor agent \(Recommended\)](/intl.en-US/Host monitoring/Cloud Monitor agent/Install and uninstall the Cloud Monitor agent.md).

-   Manually install the Cloud Monitor agent

    For more information, see [Manually install the Cloud Monitor agent on ECS instances](/intl.en-US/Host monitoring/Cloud Monitor agent/Install and uninstall the Cloud Monitor agent.md) or [Manually install the Cloud Monitor agent on hosts not provided by Alibaba Cloud](/intl.en-US/Host monitoring/Cloud Monitor agent/Install and uninstall the Cloud Monitor agent.md).


## Solution to the exit of the agent process

You can view the status and logs of the Cloud Monitor agent to determine the cause of the exit. If the process of the Cloud Monitor agent exits, it may be caused by a bug of the Cloud Monitor agent. We recommend that you submit a ticket and do not perform troubleshooting until Alibaba Cloud engineers contact you.

-   View logs of the Cloud Monitor agent
    -   Windows
        1.  Log on to the ECS instance on which you want to install the Cloud Monitor agent as the administrator.
        2.  Go to the C:\\Program Files\\Alibaba\\cloudmonitor\\local\_data\\logs directory that stores the logs of the Cloud Monitor agent.
        3.  Open the log file argusagent.log or argusagentd.log in Notepad or WordPad.
            -   argusagentd.log: stores the logs generated by the C++ agent about daemon processes. The logs contain information such as the startup and shutdown of monitoring processes.
            -   argusagent.log: stores the operational logs of the C++ agent.
    -   Linux
        1.  Log on to the host where the Cloud Monitor agent resides as the root user.
        2.  Run the following commands to view the logs of the Cloud Monitor agent:

            cd /usr/local/cloudmonitor/local\_data/logs

            cat argusagent.log

            cat argusagentd.log

            -   argusagentd.log: stores the logs generated by the C++ agent about daemon processes. The logs contain information such as the startup and shutdown of monitoring processes.
            -   argusagent.log: stores the operational logs of the C++ agent.
-   View the status of the Cloud Monitor agent
    -   Windows
        1.  Log on to the host where the Cloud Monitor agent resides as the administrator.
        2.  Open the Services window.

            Press Win+R. In the Run dialog box, enter services.msc and click **OK**.

        3.  View the status of the **argusagent** service.
    -   Linux
        1.  Log on to the host where the Cloud Monitor agent resides as the root user.
        2.  Run the following command to view the status of the Cloud Monitor agent:

            ps aux \| grep argusagent \| grep -v grep


